Add 'Create Foundry' how-to (#1461)
iotaledger/iota-wiki: docs/build/isc/v1.0.0-rc.6/docs/how-tos/create-foundry.md

---
description: How to create a L1 foundry
image: /img/logo/WASP_logo_dark.png
tags:
  - foundry
  - EVM
  - how-to
---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Create a Foundry
```

> ## About Foundry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## About Foundries
```

> The stardust update allows you to create your own native tokens. Native tokens are minted by a so-called Foundry. The Foundry allows you to specify a max supply once and change the circulating supply. This how-to will explain how to create a L1 foundry from L2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Stardust update allows you to create your own native tokens. Native tokens are minted by a [Foundry](/tips/tips/TIP-0018/#foundry-output). The Foundry allows you to specify a maximum supply once and change the circulating supply. This how-to will explain how to create an L1 foundry from L2.
```

Reviewer: Since it's also used in the other foundry related examples, we could probably turn the introduction into a variable as we do with admonitions and then add the last sentence that tells you what the guide will do as a separate paragraph, wdyt?

## Example Code

> 1. Define the `NativeTokenScheme`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Define the `NativeTokenScheme`:
```

```solidity
        NativeTokenScheme memory nativeTokenScheme = NativeTokenScheme({
            mintedTokens: _mintedTokens,
            meltedTokens: _meltedTokens,
            maximumSupply: _maximumSupply
        });
```

> 2. Set the allowance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Set the allowance:
```

```
        ISCAssets memory allowance = ISCAssets({
            baseTokens: 500_000,
            nativeTokens: new NativeToken[](0),
            nfts: new NFTID[](0)
        });
```

> 3. Create the foundry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create the foundry by calling the `ISC.accounts.foundryCreateNew(nativeTokenScheme, allowance)` function:
```

# Create a Foundry
## About Foundries

The Stardust update allows you to create your own native tokens. Native tokens are minted by a [Foundry](/tips/tips/TIP-0018/#foundry-output). 
The Foundry allows you to specify your native token's maximum supply **once** and change the circulating supply. 
This guide will show you how to create an L1 foundry using a L2 smart contract.

## Example Code

:::info Ownership

You might want to look into making the function ownable with, for example,
[OpenZeppelin](https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/5.x/access-control#ownership-and-ownable)
so only owners of the contract can call certain functionalities of your contract.

:::

1. Check if the amount paid to the contract is the same as the required [storage deposit](/learn/protocols/stardust/core-concepts/storage-deposit) 
   and set the allowance.
    
    ```solidity
            require(msg.value == _storageDeposit*(10**12), "Please send exact funds to pay for storage deposit");
            ISCAssets memory allowance;
            allowance.baseTokens = _storageDeposit;
    ```

:::info  Payable

Instead of making the function payable, you could let the contract pay for the storage deposit. 

> If so, you will need to change the `require` statement to check if the contract's balance has enough funds.

Reviewer: It'd be good to provide an alternative line if the users want to use it.

Author: I can add that in one of the other PRs where the admonition got exported 😆
